---
title: Host Configuration
layout: article
category: install
---

The streaming host configuration for LibreTime is shown in the file */etc/airtime/liquidsoap.cfg* which is automatically generated by the **Streams** page, found on the **System** menu of the LibreTime administration interface. For this reason, you would not normally edit the streaming configuration manually, as any changes are likely to be overwritten by the administration interface.

## Database and RabbitMQ hosts {#database}

Optionally, you may wish to edit the file */etc/airtime/airtime.conf* to set the PostgreSQL database host, and the username and password to connect to the database with:

    sudo nano /etc/airtime/airtime.conf

You can also set options for RabbitMQ messaging, the LibreTime server and SoundCloud uploads in this file, although you should not normally need to adjust the defaults unless you are running a large LibreTime system distributed across multiple servers. To run the LibreTime server in demo mode, which changes the greeting on the login page and prevents user accounts from being created or modified, set the value of *demo* to 1.

    [database]
    host = localhost
    dbname = airtime
    dbuser = airtime
    dbpass = airtime

    [rabbitmq]
    host = 127.0.0.1
    port = 5672
    user = airtime
    password = XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    vhost = /airtime

    [general]
    api_key = XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    web_server_user = www-data
    airtime_dir = /usr/share/airtime
    base_url = libretime.example.com
    base_port = 80
    base_dir = /
    cache_ahead_hours = 1

    [monit]
    monit_user = guest
    monit_password = airtime

    [soundcloud]
    connection_retries = 3
    time_between_retries = 60

    [demo]
    demo = 0

Save and close the file with **Ctrl+O** and **Ctrl+X**.  In order to update the configuration
used by the various components of LibreTime, run the following commands

    sudo systemctl restart libretime-liquidsoap
    sudo systemctl restart libretime-playout
    sudo systemctl restart libretime-celery
    sudo systemctl restart libretime-analyzer

## API client configuration {#api}

The LibreTime API enables many types of information about the broadcast schedule and configuration to be retrieved from the LibreTime server. Other than the live-info and week-info data fetched by website widgets (see the chapter *Exporting the schedule*), all API requests must be authenticated using the secret API key stored in the file */etc/airtime/api\_client.cfg* on the LibreTime server. This key is autogenerated during LibreTime installation and should be unique for each server.

If you intend to use the LibreTime API across a public network, for security reasons it is highly recommended that all API requests are sent over encrypted https: and that the web server is configured to accept requests to the api/ directory from specific host names or IP addresses only.

If you have changed the *base\_url*, *base\_port* or *base\_dir* setting in */etc/airtime/airtime.conf* from the defaults, you will probably also have to update the *Hostname* settings in the file */etc/airtime/api\_client.cfg* accordingly.**

    bin_dir = /usr/lib/airtime/api_clients
    api_key = 'XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX'
    api_base = api
    host = libretime.example.com
    base_port = 80
    base_dir = /

## Apache max file size configuration {#apache}

By default, the maximum upload file size is 40 MB, which may not be large enough for some stations, especially if they are uploading prerecorded shows. The setting for this is located in */etc/apache2/sites-available/airtime.config*. Search for and update the following in megabytes:

```
; Maximum allowed size for uploaded files.
upload_max_filesize = 40M

; Must be greater than or equal to upload_max_filesize
post_max_size = 40M
```

For quick reference, 1024 MB = 1 GB and 2048 MB = 2 GB, but most will be okay with rounding to the nearest thousand. After updating the config file, restart Apache. 

```
sudo systemctl restart apache2
```

## Playout settings {#playout}

Settings for pypo, the playout engine used by LibreTime, are found in the file */etc/airtime/airtime.conf*. After making changes to this file, you will have to issue the command:

    sudo systemctl restart libretime-playout

for the changes to take effect.

    ############################################
    # pypo - configuration                     #
    ############################################
    # Set the type of client you are using.
    # Currently supported types:
    # 1) "obp" = Open Broadcast Platform
    # 2) "airtime"
    #
    api_client = airtime

    ############################################
    # Cache Directories                        #
    # *include* trailing slash !!              #
    ############################################
    cache_dir = /var/tmp/airtime/pypo/cache/
    file_dir = /var/tmp/airtime/pypo/files/
    tmp_dir = /var/tmp/airtime/pypo/tmp/

    ############################################
    # Setup Directories                        #
    # Do *not* include trailing slash !!       #
    ############################################
    cache_base_dir = /var/tmp/airtime/pypo
    bin_dir = /usr/lib/airtime/pypo
    log_base_dir = /var/log/airtime
    pypo_log_dir = /var/log/airtime/pypo
    liquidsoap_log_dir = /var/log/airtime/pypo-liquidsoap

    ############################################
    # Liquidsoap settings                      #
    ############################################
    ls_host = 127.0.0.1
    ls_port = 1234

    ############################################
    # RabbitMQ settings                        #
    ############################################
    rabbitmq_host = localhost
    rabbitmq_user = airtime
    rabbitmq_password = XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    rabbitmq_vhost = /airtime

    ############################################
    # pypo preferences                         #
    ############################################
    # Poll interval in seconds.
    #
    # This will rarely need to be changed because any schedule changes are
    # automatically sent to pypo immediately.
    #
    # This is how often the poll script downloads new schedules and files from the
    # server in the event that no changes are made to the schedule.
    #
    poll_interval = 3600# in seconds.

    # Push interval in seconds.
    #
    # This is how often the push script checks whether it has something new to
    # push to liquidsoap.
    #
    # It's hard to imagine a situation where this should be more than 1 second.
    #
    push_interval = 1# in seconds

    # 'pre' or 'otf'. 'pre' cues while playlist preparation
    # while 'otf' (on the fly) cues while loading into ls
    # (needs the post_processor patch)
    cue_style = pre
    
## RabbitMQ hostname changes

If the Airtime logs indicate failures to connect to the RabbitMQ server, such as:

```
2013-10-31 08:21:11,255 ERROR - [pypomessagehandler.py : main() : line
99] - Error connecting to RabbitMQ Server. Trying again in few seconds

2013-10-31 08:21:11,255 ERROR - \[pypomessagehandler.py : main() : line 99\] - Error connecting to RabbitMQ Server. Trying again in few seconds - See more at: http://forum.sourcefabric.org/discussion/16050/\#sthash.W8OJrNFm.dpuf
```
but the RabbitMQ server is running normally, this error might be due to a change in the server's hostname since Libretime installation. Directory names under */var/lib/rabbitmq/mnesia/* indicate that RabbitMQ's database files are organised according to the hostname of the server (ex. `rabbit@airtime`) where the hostname is *airtime.example.com*. If the hostname has changed, it may be necessary to reconfigure RabbitMQ manually, as follows:

1. Delete the files in */var/lib/rabbitmq/mnesia/*

```
sudo rm -r /var/lib/rabbitmq/mnesia/*
```

2. Restart RabbitMQ:

```
sudo systemctl restart rabbitmq-server
```

3. Enter the following commands to set up authentication and grant permissions. The *rabbitmqctl add\_user* command requires the RabbitMQ password from the /etc/airtime/airtime.conf file as an argument. The *rabbitmqctl set\_permissions* command should be entered on one line, with the list of Airtime services repeated three times:

```
rabbitmqctl add_vhost /airtime
rabbitmqctl add_user airtime XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p /airtime airtime
   "airtime-pypo|pypo-fetch|airtime-analyzer|media-monitor"
   "airtime-pypo|pypo-fetch|airtime-analyzer|media-monitor"
   "airtime-pypo|pypo-fetch|airtime-analyzer|media-monitor"
```